Updated Security Considerations section (#74)
Haivision/srt-rfc: draft-sharabayko-mops-srt.md

# Security Considerations

SRT provides confidentiality of user data using stream ciphers as
specified in {{encryption}}, which is the only improvement of
security upon UDT. That means other limitations from UDT remain
as they are, and SRT needs to consider any security protection
mechanisms at an upper layer depending on its security requirements.
Integrity protection of user data can also be supported as described

> in counter mode of {{SP800-38A}}, and its usage details are out of scope for the present document.

Reviewer: SRT provides confidentiality of user data using stream ciphers as specified in 
{{encryption}}. This is the only improvement over UDT, which does not have any 
specific security mechanisms (SRT therefore needs to consider security 
requirements at an upper layer).

Reviewer 2: Please don't mention UDT here. UDT is not some official protocol.

Reviewer 2: A draft proposal

```suggestion
SRT provides confidentiality of the payload using stream ciphers and a pre-shared private key as
specified in {{encryption}}. The security can be compromised if the pre-shared passphrase
is known to the attacker.

On the protocol control level, SRT does not encrypt packet headers. Therefore it has some vulnerabilities similar to TCP {{RFC6528}}:

- a peer tells a counterpart his public IPs during the handshake, which is visible to any attacker,

- an attacker may count the number of systems behind a Network Address Translator (NAT) by establishing a number of SRT connections and identifying the number of different sequence number "spaces", depending on the implementation of the initial sequence number generation.

- eavesdropper can also hijack existing connections only if it can steal the IP and port of one of the parties. If some stream addresses an existing SRT receiver by its SRT socket ID, IP and port number, but arrives from a different IP or port, then SRT receiver ignores it.

- SRT has certain protection from DoS attacks, see {{handshake-messages}}.

```

Author: Sounds good to me. What's **eavesdropper** in the 3rd point? Or it's a misprint?

Reviewer 2: "eavesdropper" is someone listening to others secretly.

The encryption feature of SRT requires some cautions. SEK needs to be changed with an
appropriate refresh period to avoid any issues which might occur if security keys
would be used for a long period of time. The shared secret for KEK generation needs
to be carefully configured by a security officer, who is supposed to set security policies
to force encryption and limit key size selection. Another aspect to consider is caching of KMmsg.
When encryption and decryption of the same messages affect processing cost for sender or receiver,

> cached KMmsg could be retransmitted or checked before deciphering.

Reviewer: There are some important considerations regarding the encryption feature of SRT:

  - The SEK must be changed at an appropriate refresh interval to avoid the risk 
  associated with the use of security keys over a long period of time. 
  - The shared secret for KEK generation must be carefully configured by a 
  security officer responsible for security policies, enforcing encryption, and 
  limiting key size selection. 
  - To improve performance, in some cases the KMmsg cache can be retrasnmitted 
  or checked before deciphering.

Reviewer 2: Given some cautions are mentioned, do we need to mention here that SHA-1 hashing function is used?

Reviewer 2: This one is not clear to me in the part of what is the performance issue and how caching of KMmsg solves it.

> To improve performance, in some cases the KMmsg cache can be retransmitted
or checked before deciphering.

Author: See the original text by Joonwoong. He meant that it can be cashed and not encrypted several times. But I don't know whether it makes sense.

Reviewer 2: I don't think it is something relevant, because the same KMmsg is not expected to be sent periodically.
I suggest removing this item then.

# Security Considerations

SRT provides confidentiality of the payload using stream cipher and a pre-shared private key as
specified in {{encryption}}. The security can be compromised if the pre-shared passphrase
is known to the attacker.

On the protocol control level, SRT does not encrypt packet headers.

> Therefore it has some vulnerabilities similar to TCP {{RFC6528}}:

Reviewer 2: This PR has build error.
```
Error: IDREF attribute target references an unknown ID "RFC6528", at None
```

Therefore it has some vulnerabilities similar to TCP {{RFC6528}}:

- a peer tells a counterpart its public IP during the handshake that is visible to any attacker,

> - an attacker may potentially count the number of systems behind a Network Address Translator (NAT) by establishing a number of SRT connections and identifying the number of different sequence number "spaces". The possibility of attack depends on the implementation of the initial sequence number (ISN) generation,

Reviewer: This statement is unclear to me. What are the "systems" an attacker might count? What are "sequence number spaces", and how does knowing their number help the attacker?

Author: Sequence number spaces - something Maxim has mentioned in TCP documentation as well. According to him, this term should be recognisable by the reader. But I've had exactly the same question. The meaning is the following:
- for each SRT packet we have sequence number which is growing by 1 from packet to packet,
- right after connection we randomly choose the start sequence number (e.g., 1660778620) and the very first packet gets this number. The next packet will be with 1660778621, the next 1660778622, etc.
- on the other hand, for any other connection, this very first randomly chosen sequence number can be 255222121, the next packet will get 255222122, the next 255222123, etc.
- By spaces Maxim assumes 166... and 255... sets of numbers. And the possible attack is related to identifying theses spaces because behind them there is a logic of increasing sequence number by 1 each time you send a packet.

Author: @maxsharabayko What do you mean by systems here?

Reviewer 2: It is a bit opportunistic maybe, but an attacker can count the number of SRT **processes** by tracking the ranges of SRT Socket IDs. As in our implementation, a library is instantiated and establishes the first connection generating a random Socket ID. A further connection gets consecutive SRT Socket IDs.
So one process will generate SRT Socket IDs 126, 127, 128, ... While another process will generate 5867, 5868, 5869, ...
If we assume one system  (e.g. Makito) runs only one SRT process, then an attacker can estimate the number of systems behind a NAT.

I actually inaccurately referred to ISN in the paragraph. We generate ISN randomly for each connection, so it is impossible to use it to track anyone. But if some other implementation does not do that, then it is also a vulnerability give that no SRT packet headers are encrypted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- an attacker may potentially count the number of SRT processes behind a Network 
Address Translator (NAT) by establishing multiple SRT connections and tracking 
the ranges of SRT Socket IDs. If a random Socket ID is generated for the first 
connection, subsequent connections may get consecutive SRT Socket IDs. Assuming 
one system runs only one SRT process, for example, then an attacker can estimate 
the number of systems behind a NAT.

- similarly, the possibility of attack depends on the implementation of the initial 
sequence number (ISN) generation. If an ISN is not generated randomly for each 
connection, an attacker may potentially count the number of systems behind a 
Network Address Translator (NAT) by establishing a number of SRT connections and 
identifying the number of different sequence number "spaces", given that no SRT 
packet headers are encrypted.
```

Reviewer 2: I couldn't write better! 👍
